I just finished a [vignette](https://davidearthur.github.io/ST558Project1/) describing the use of the `getNHL()` function that I created to retrieve information from several NHL API endpoints.  I learned a lot in the process.  The most difficult part of the project for me was getting the right information from the APIs into the right format.  In the future, I think I will spend less time trying to get minor details perfect, at least until I've completed all of the major goals of the project.  If I get everything done and have time to go back to work on minor details, I can do so.  This time I felt like I had to rush through some of the aspects of putting together the vignette and commentary, because I had spent so much time fine-tuning some of the functions.

I know very little about hockey, but found the exploratory data analysis interesting.  I found a strong (unsurprising) correlation between teams' all-time "Goals For":"Goals Against" ratio and their all-time "Win Percentage".  I also saw that defunct franchises generally had lower win percentages than most active franchises.  At least at first glance, I didn't see any relationship between the number of years a given team had existed and their win percentage in the 2020-2021 season.  I also saw no sign of a correlation between the number of jerseys a given team had retired (divided by years in existence), and that team's overall win percentage.  This was a bit surprising, as I would expect teams with more players worthy of jersey retirement to be more successful.

Relevant files can be found in my [repo](https://github.com/davidearthur/ST558Project1).
